
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

Sybil-Based Attacks on Google Maps or
How to Forge the Image of City Life

Cihan Eryonucu
eryonucu@kth.se
KTH Royal Institute of Technology
Stockholm, Sweden

ABSTRACT

Location-based services (LBS) increasingly rely on participatory or
crowd-sensed data: users voluntarily contribute data about their
whereabouts and points of interest (POIs) and allow the LBS to
capture the dynamically changing environment, e.g., how crowded
specific places, streets, or public transportation are. Popular LBS
applications do not offer strong security, less so for their partici-
patory sensing (PS) and data contribution part. Openness favors
participation and increases data, but it also makes attacks easier.
Sporadic misbehavior incidents and the presumed user honesty
should not be reassuring: an attacker could exploit the PS compo-
nents and submit a large volume of forged data to dominate the
PS-collected LBS data, locally or at a large scale. Individuals, orga-
nizations, or entire areas could be targeted, e.g., having customers
diverted or causing public transportation routes or roads to appear
congested. The lingering open question is whether such attacks can
be perpetrated against well-established popular LBS with PS com-
ponents. This paper affirms this: we investigate Google Maps, the
single most popular application in this domain, and show a range
of effective and scalable attacks based on very modest adversarial
assumptions, We reverse-engineer the data submission process and
automate attacks that craft and submit false data in volume and a
targeted fashion. We collect evidence that our attacks work on POI
crowdedness, traffic congestion levels, and public transportation
crowdedness with extreme caution. We responsibly disclosed the
attacks to Google, acknowledged them and awarded recognition.
The attack methodology carries over to other LBS applications but,
most importantly, raises awareness and motivates countermeasures,
which we also outline here, for stronger LBS and PS security overall.

CCS CONCEPTS

+ Security and privacy — Software reverse engineering; Software
security engineering.

KEYWORDS

Participatory Sensing, Mobile Crowd Sensing, Sybil Attacks, Google
Maps, Attacks, Security, Vulnerabilities

ACM Reference Format:
Cihan Eryonucu and Panos Papadimitratos. 2022. Sybil-Based Attacks on
Google Maps or How to Forge the Image of City Life. In Proceedings of

ose

WiSec "22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA.
© 2022 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-9216-7/22/08.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3507657.3528538

This work is licensed under a Creative Com-
mons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike In-
ternational 4.0 License.

73

Panos Papadimitratos
papadim@kth.se
KTH Royal Institute of Technology
Stockholm, Sweden

the 15th ACM Conference on Security and Privacy in Wireless and Mobile
Networks (WiSec '22), May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA. ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 12 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3507657.3528538

1 INTRODUCTION

Location-based services (LBS) provide rich data to users, covering a
broad gamut of points of interests (POIs), e.g., regarding landmarks,
public services, businesses, as well as navigation and trip planning,
including public transportation. Significant parts of this informa-
tion, e.g., road layout, location of a shopping center, or a tram route,
are static or change slowly. In addition, dynamically changing in-
formation, e.g,, traffic conditions, numbers of shoppers, or tram
passengers, is made available to LBS users, Often, such data can be
collected effectively only thanks to the contributions of users, who
consent to share their location or submit specific information about
specific POls; or even submit time- and geo-stamped sensory mea-
surements (e.g., noise, light) their devices are equipped to collect.
Such participatory data collection, termed in general participatory
sensing (PS) or mobile crowd sensing (MCS), greatly enhances the
user experience for numerous LBS, with growing popularity. In fact,
the broader the user participation is, the richer and more diverse
the participatory sensed data are; thus, the more successful the LBS
is with a broader user base, e.g., Google Maps, Apple Maps, Waze.

Overall, participating users are presumed honest, contributing
accurate data, typically automatically through a client application
they download, install and configure, but cannot, in principle, mod-
ify. Data is collected in compliance with the user agreement, user
preferences, and possibly specific data collection campaigns they
agree to join. Submitted data can sometimes be faulty due to benign
failures, e.g., Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinate inaccura-
cies in urban environments, sensing limitations and inaccuracies,
or occasional careless user inputs. However, such irregularities do
not drastically change the overall PS formed knowledge.

Most, if not all, PS applications are open to participation, they
lack rigid defense mechanisms and they are far from offering strong
security (and privacy); despite proposals in the research literature
for secure and privacy-preserving PS architectures and LBS, e.g., [1,
2, 3]. Currently, widely adopted applications typically require cre-
ating a password-protected account, using an email address and a
mobile phone, logging in, and submitting data. This has been the
predominant model for mobile applications.

PS-based LBS depend on large user numbers: the less strict secu-
rity policies and the less cumbersome security mechanisms are, the
more usable and likely to gain in popularity such apps are. At the
same time, there have been only isolated incidents of lesser conse-
quence or research-driven investigations of attacks. For example,
sporadic faulty Google Maps reports on adverse road conditions [4]
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

were manually removed and ceased. Or, Simon Weckert, who car-
ried 99 phones at walking speed in a cart [5], created the illusion of
traffic congestion reported by Google Maps for streets he walked
along. Or Ghost Riders, virtual vehicles created by an attacker ap-
pearing to move together to report faulty events effectively (e.g.,
traffic congestion) for a popular crowd-sourced navigation applica-
tion [6].

Given the growing reliance of users on LBS with PS compo-
nents, the open question is whether such well-established popular
LBS applications can be easily attacked and information manipu-
lated in a targeted manner and in scale. Investigating how to exploit
PS data collection of different types, it is paramount to concretize
risks and implications for currently deployed, popular applications.
This is why we consider Google Maps, one of the most popular,
versatile, and useful apps, thanks to its accuracy and dynamically
changing information, thanks to millions of users contributing with
their data [7]. Its PS-ed data collection is implicit (automatically
collected user location) and explicit (user-based responses or sub-
missions). Google Maps provides features ranging from detailed
POI crowdedness information to public transportation [8].

We start by reverse-engineering the Google Maps PS-ed data
submission process because it is not an open-source app, with-
out a description of the involved protocols available. We seek to
understand the types of data the app collects, how users partici-
pate, how often they do so, and whether submitted data can be
replicated. Based on this understanding, we find exploits based on
user registration, data submission, and user authentication. These
weaknesses can lead to attacks that poison the PS functionality of
Google Maps. We consider attacks of different types, based on the
attacker capabilities and methodology.

Our first attack type, script-based attacks, create fake users, Sybils,
using Python scripts, instead of real devices, mimicking the real
app behavior. Sybils appear as if they travel in an area the same way
normal Google Maps users would and change POI crowdedness
levels in a coordinated manner. If the place appears crowded at a
specific time, customers could decide to pick another, less crowded
shop. We augment the attacker capabilities through emulator-based
attacks, using smartphone emulators to launch multiple instances
of the Google Maps app. Emulators are much cheaper and more
configurable than actual devices, and they offer more attack options
compared to script-based attacks. They can affect public transporta-
tion (e.g., a bus or tram), road traffic and place crowdedness levels.
Attacking public transportation crowdedness can mislead users and
create imbalances and worse passenger service, e.g., when users
pick inappropriately. Attacking traffic levels can affect route se-
lection by any driver using Google Maps for navigation, targeting
individuals or causing traffic jams.

An attacker can use our approach here to harm other apps. Of
course, each application deploys a different set of security mea-
sures and requires in-depth investigation separately. Still, lessons
learned from circumventing existing security, e.g., OAuth?2, TLS,
two-factor authentication, can carry over to other PS-based LBS;
along with the creation and orchestration of multiple accounts; a
focused, automated, and large volume of data submission; and use
of emulated devices for more refined control of the attacks.

74

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Sec. 2 provides
an overview of the Google Maps features and their data collec-
tion process. Sec. 3 explains the fundamental attack aspects and
preliminaries. Sec. 4 gives details about reverse engineering the
Google Maps. We outline the attacks in Sec. 5, and 6 respectively.
We discuss the implications, and possible countermeasures in Sec.
7, with related work in Sec. 8. We explain the responsible disclosure
and responsible conduct for this work in Sec. 9, before we conclude.

2 AGOOGLE MAPS PRIMER

Google Maps has various PS features. Here, we describe those we
consider in our attack scenarios. Places or points of interest (POIs)
in Google Maps refer to a broad number of interactable objects,
such as restaurants, museums, hotels, businesses, schools, parks,
etc, with detailed information when selected on the map.

Some places, e.g., businesses, and subway stations, show a his-
togram of average crowdedness level (in other words, popular times)
of the place across the day [9]. There is no clear definition of what
‘popularity’ corresponds to; possibly, it relates to users visiting the
place. For some places, popularity is shown in real-time, although
not clear how much data or how many users over which period are
necessary for the histogram creation and live update.

Google launched a new feature in 2019 for large cities [8], predict-
ing how crowded public transportation (bus, subway, tram) lines
are based on the historical crowdsourced data for any particular
line. Google collects such data explicitly when it infers users took a
line, based on their location, movement, or query by sending them
a form asking how crowded the line was. Users can either ignore
the form or respond with the appropriate crowdedness level as they
perceive it. Google Maps creates popular times graphs, with hourly
crowdedness levels, and shows a prediction per route/line.

Google Maps shows both historical and live road traffic levels
based on contributions from the smartphones of drivers and pas-
sengers on the road [10]. When getting directions, Google Maps
shows the busy or jammed parts of the route and presents alterna-
tive routes if the optimal route has some congested parts. Usually,
location data is contributed if users log in with their Google ac-
counts and give consent. There is a simple, unified registration
process for all services, without, usually, auxiliary data (email or
phone number). Users select permissions when they first launch,
the app to quickly reach the services. Google Maps is not an open-
source application and there is no information about how the PS
data is collected, explicitly or implicitly. Transport Layer Security
(TLS) [11] is used for all communication between the server and the
app, preventing eavesdropping and messages modification. After
logging in with the app, the server issues authentication tokens
which are used in the data submission process.

Place Crowdedness: The popular times graph is based on user
location data, averaging the popularity over time [12]. Precise infor-
mation on how much data a place needs, how many users need to.
contribute, and how long it takes to create the graph is not available
Typical app usage would be a user with an account traveling in the
targeted area while the app runs in the background, sending data to
the server, for creating the popular times graph of the target place
Public Transportation: Users contribute to the public transporta-
tion knowledge by responding to questionnaires crowdedness forms
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

when it is detected that a user used a specific transport line, based
on her location. When a user queries directions to a destination, in-
cluding public transportation, the app reviews possible lines along
the route. The user does not need to start the route for the app
to start the reviewing process. By checking the user location in
real-time, Google Maps infers whether the user used (or is using)
the specific line. When, for example, the user gets off the bus and
unlocks her phone, the app sends the form, asking how crowded
the bus was. The app downloads the bus route overview estimating
the current bus location.

Road Traffic Congestion: To contribute to the aggregation of
data used for live traffic congestion levels, users need to have an
active driving route to some destination. The vehicle speed is the
basis for estimating the road congestion levels. The app calculates
the speed by using the GPS coordinates of the device. Based on the
user/app’s current location, the app informs on the congestion level
of relevant road segments.

3 ATTACKING GOOGLE MAPS

The attacks target Google Maps PS-based features and specific rel-
evant places/POls. This can be a street or a sequence of streets,
a route, whose perceived traffic level the attacker wishes to ma-
nipulate; or a restaurant whose crowdedness graph the attacker
wishes to alter; or a specific bus line. Thus, the target depends on
the motivation of the attacker and it can vary. We instantiate our
attacks, without loss of generality, assuming the attacker focuses
on single feature at a time. This is for presentation purposes, as an
adversary could attack multiple features simultaneously.

We consider POI, public transportation, and traffic attacks. The
first target is graphs for popular/crowded business times. The at-
tacker wishes to make a place appear more popular and crowded
than it is. The second target is public transportation line crowded-
ness: the attacker submits false data to make specific routes more
crowded. The third target is live traffic congestion levels: the at-
tacker emulates many slow-moving vehicles to make the targeted
street(s) appear (relatively) congested,

Instead of a costly (and ineffective if in small scale) deployment
of actual devices and colluding misbehaving users, the adversary
would mount the attack(s) from, ideally, a single or a small number
of computing platforms, either smartphones or main-stream work-
stations; targeting potentially any location or area, independently
of the adversary whereabouts. To be successful, the adversary needs
to appear as numerous Google Maps users, owning multiple dis-
tinct Google accounts; the higher the number, the more likely the
attack success and the higher its effect. It may be infeasible for an
attacker to control many accounts manually and simultaneously
to create some effect. For more effective attacks, it is important
for the attacker to automate and orchestrate the attacks, as well as
scale up their volume. This can be done with the use of existing
tools, Python and bash scripts, smartphone emulators, and auto-
clicker apps. Scaling up based on the emulators is simple: once the
emulator is configured, the attacker can replicate emulator images.
User Accounts: At registration, a phone number is needed some-
times to verify the registering user. There are no clear rules but
rather several observations [13, 14]. According to our experiments,
the first five account creations from the same IP address do not

75

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

Approach 2

pperoechyy Emulator-based Attacks

Script-based Attacks

Targets: Crowdedness of

Target: Crowdedness of laces, public transportation,

places

ind traffic
Building Blocks: Data Building Blocks:
submission script, packet
i martphone emulators,
niffer 5
movement scripts, auto-
licker apps

Figure 1: Overview of the Sybil-based attack approaches and
targeted PS-based features.

require a phone number or an additional email address. After that,
Google needs a phone number to send a verification text message
Users do not have to store the phone number while creating the
account. They can simply leave the phone number field empty at
the last step. One can verify up to five accounts with a single phone
number but this can make those accounts trivially linkable. In total,
an attacker can create five accounts with no connection to each
other. The attacker would either need a not previously used IP
address or an unused phone number for more accounts. To achieve
this, one could use a VPN service or use free-of-charge cellular SIM
cards (sometimes distributed freely in public places, e.g., subway
entrances to lure new customers) that allow text message reception
or attackers could buy/rent virtual phone services to receive SMS
messages to bypass the phone verification [15]. Attackers could
also directly buy Google accounts from third-party sites [16] with
Google accounts on-sale typically created more than a year ago, so
that they can submit reviews to Google Play Store and Google Maps
In principle, accounts that cannot be linked could be desirable from
the attacker’s viewpoint.

We created 20 accounts for our experiments, and they were
created manually, using the browsers of our computers and smart-
phones. Five of them were created using one SIM card for verifi-
cation codes. In this investigation, account creation is orthogonal
and relevant only for large-scale attacks. We do not dwell on how
to obtain many and we refrain from doing so. We did not buy any
accounts from any vendor, nor did we use any virtual phone ser-
vices to receive text messages, nor did we attempt any automated
approach for account creation. Instead, we essentially created ac-
counts the way actual, benign users are expected to do so.
Bypassing TLS: Google Maps is not an open-source app, thus to
understand how user data/feedback is collected necessitates cap-
turing communication between the app and the server, essentially
reverse-engineering functionality. We investigate the application
programming interface (API) calls between the app (client) and the
server. Google Maps clients communicate with servers over TLS,
thus, we cannot see the content of the API calls. We transform our
computer into a man-in-the-middle (mitm) node to bypass the TLS.
This is possible because the clients do not need to be authenticated
but only the server does. All smartphone communication goes to
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

the mitm node, which then forwards data to the Google server; the
server responses to the smartphone go through our mitm node too.
We use Charles Proxy [17] to build this mitm-like packet capture
capability. To bypass TLS, we create a self-signed certificate for the
mitm node and install it to the smartphone, misleading it to initiate
a TLS handshake with the mitm in lieu of the Google Maps server.
iOS and Android (version 6 and below) operating systems allow
users to trust third-party certificates, hence allowing us to complete
the bypass process. With this scheme, we can see the Google Maps
API calls and interpret how data collection and authentication work.
This process is not an attack per se but a setup that allows us to
do the necessary reverse-engineering investigation. The Google
Maps server-only authentication allows us to bypass TLS to remedy
this installing client certificates to the app is not straightforward,
especially due to compatibility issues [18, 19].

We explore two types of attack, we term script-, and emulator-
based, depending on the attack approach and tool. Script-based
place attacks use scripts to automate the attack with minimum cost
and human involvement. However, not every attack can be mounted
this way. This is why we use smartphone emulators to carry out
a broader gamut of attacks on places/POIs, public transportation
lines and live road traffic. These are mostly automated and scalable
attacks, which is essential from the attacker viewpoint.

Despite differences in the targeted features and attack tools,
there are also similarities across attack approaches, as shown in Fig.
1. For clarity, we group script-based place attacks and emulator-
based place attacks as place attacks, because they aim at submitting
location data to places in Google Maps. We also group; place, public
transportation and traffic attacks, under Approach 2, emulator-based
attacks, as they leverage smartphone emulators as an integral part
of the attack(s). Table 1 shows the attack approaches, in columns,
vs. features in rows, summarizing effectiveness and scalability.

The attacks are fundamentally simple: Google Maps is fed with
user whereabouts. The goal of place attacks, submitting location
data for specific POIs, and to create fake popularity and crowded-
ness. Such attacks can affect Google Maps users by creating wrong,
misleading information, influencing user choices (e.g., visiting or
not visiting a place) and thus their daily lives. Public transportation
attacks submit crowdedness forms to create fake knowledge about
specific public transportation lines. Similarly, traffic attacks creates
fake traffic congestion levels. As a result, people may decide to use
non-optimal routes for their intended destinations.

Initially, we learn from the system in Sec. 4. Then, in Sec. 5 and
6, we proceed with the precise steps taken by the adversary to
compromise the data submission process, we present, respectively
the effects of the proposed attacks we experimented with. We also
briefly gauge their efficiency, even though we did not seek in this
work to optimize in that sense and go beyond establishing feasibility
for each attack, carefully crafting experiments with no risk for
actual users.

4 REVERSE ENGINEERING GOOGLE MAPS

Having the setup to bypass TLS, we capture traffic between the iOS
and Android versions of Google Maps and the server. Google uses
OAuth2 [20] authorization tokens for authentication. The client
attaches tokens to the custom HTTPS header for every API call.

76

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

l Script-based | Emulator-based

Place Crowdedness rz v
Public Transportation - Wd
Traffic Congestion - v

Table 1: Effectiveness and evaluation of attack approach to
Google Maps PS features. A double-check indicates an effec-
tive and scalable attack. A single check indicates a doable but
moderately efficient attack (at this stage).

We identified three token types: refresh, access, and submit tokens.
Refresh and access tokens are used by both the iOS and Android
app versions; Android version 6 has no submit tokens. Below, we
explain the use of each token type, all Base64 strings of 240-300
characters.

Refresh Tokens can be considered as long-term credentials, issued
by the server when the user logs in with an account to the app. Re-
fresh tokens have no expiration time and can be used until they are
revoked; they are used only to obtain access tokens. Any user with
a refresh token, can obtain all necessary authentication credentials,
that is, other tokens, from the server. If the user decides to sign
out from her account on the device, the app initiates a process of
sending the refresh token to the server with a revocation request.
Access Tokens can be obtained from the server using the refresh
token or another access token. There is no limit to obtaining access
tokens: requesting one does not revoke the previously issued access
token(s). The app sends an access token request, including device
and account-specific information. For iOS, it sends the client_id the
app registers per device when the user signs in and obtains a refresh
token. If the app sends a different client_id, the server does not issue
an access token. Thus, we can safely conclude Google Maps binds
the refresh token with the registered client_id. For Android, the
app sends more information to the server compared to the iOS ver-
sion. Account-specific information, such as email, device-specific
information, such as android_id, and software-specific identifiers,
such as the sdk version. We found that Google does not verify most
of these fields and still issues tokens even if field values, e.g., sdk,
are incorrect. However, some essential fields need to be generated
carefully. The Service field specifies the scope of the requested to-
ken; tokens are of no use outside their scope. For example, tokens
requested for reporting location data cannot be used for user infor-
mation retrieval. There are other essential fields, such as client_sig,
app_field, and token_request_option but their values is same across
all requests for user; hence, replaying captured packet values is
suffices to get a fresh token.

Google Maps attaches the refresh token to the authorization
field of the HTTPS header. Consequently, the server returns an
access token with a specified expiration time. The token expiration
time varies 50 to 85 seconds. Access tokens are used for obtaining
more access tokens, submit tokens, and account information related
to Google Maps. Android devices use the tokens for submitting
data, but iOS devices use access tokens to work as intermediate
authentication tokens. iOS access tokens have no scopes and are
used for obtaining submit tokens.
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

iOS Devices ‘cid Devices
Register wih an Register with an
‘Account Google Maps Server ‘Account
Refresh Token Relresh Token
‘Aovess Token ‘Access Token
Request vest
‘Aooess Token
Submit Token
Request
Subrit Token
Data submission is
Process Prooess

Figure 2: Overview of authorization and token acquisition.

Submit Tokens are short-term tokens used by iOS devices for
reporting location data to the server. Submit tokens are obtained
by sending a request to the server along with an access token. The
client needs to define the scope for the requested submit token.
Tokens become unusable after their expiration time, always with a
value of 3599 ms.

App/client security actions: Having clarified the token func-
tionality, we next explain the overall Google Maps client operation,
starting with the user opening the app for the first time, We simplify
the process, describing only authentication and application security
actions. The user opens the app and logs in to her Google account
via her username and password. Upon successful verification, the
server returns the refresh token. In this step, the 1S Google Maps
registers the client_id to the server, binding the client_id with the
refresh token, Similarly, for Android devices, client_sig is registered.
From this point on, iOS and Android apps differ in terms of the
submission process. The iOS app obtains an access token using the
refresh token. The apps use Access tokens mainly, while refresh
tokens are used when there are no active tokens. The app obtains
the submit tokens as soon as possible after obtaining an access to-
ken and it starts submitting data to the server. For Android devices,
there is no submit token. Instead, the app requests access tokens to
submit data. Both iOS and Android apps continuously renew their
tokens. In our attacks, we follow the same steps the app takes.
Understanding the structure of data sent to the server: Ev-
ery second, by default, the mobile client sends location data to the
Google Maps server. These periodically sent packets have distinct
features compared to other packets. x-geo, a custom HTTP header
encoded as a BASE64 string, is particularly important. Sensed loca-
tion data is not evident in the packets, but x-geo header might be the
field carrying location information. Our first guess was decoding
the x-geo to well-known strings, e.g., ASCII or Unicode. This did not
yield any results. However, we found information on the usage of
the x-geo in Google browser project Chromium’s source code [21].
There are code comments referred to usages and construction of
the x-geo header. Furthermore, comments refer to the documenta-
tion of the x-geo header to an internal Google page [22], but one

77

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

needs Google internal access to see the contents. Still the source
code gives good insights about the x-geo header: latitude, longitude,
timestamp, and radius information is merged into a Protocol Buffer
(protobuf) [23] object and then encoded as a BASE64 string. The
protobuf file used in this code also exists in the chromium source
code [24], which allows one to replicate this object. We reverse-
engineer the encoding scheme to see whether the object in [24]
is used in the x-geo headers used by Google Maps. Decoded x-geo
headers fitted perfectly to the object in [24]. Extracted timestamp
and location information matched the place and time of the cap-
tured packets. This established that x-geo headers carry information
about the sensed location data. Using the same class, we can craft
x-geo headers on demand.

The final aspect to look for is the content, the payload, of the sub-
mitted data. The app sends binary data in the payload, not encoded
with an unknown encoding scheme. However, it appears parts of
the payload can be decoded, revealing device-specific information
(eg,, the device name and the OS version). The server accepts the
replayed packets. We randomly change bytes in the payload and
send the corrupted payload to see the effect. Sometimes the server
does not accept the submitted packet. We use different payloads to
investigate this, change every byte iteratively to find which bytes
are essential for the server to accept the packets. 78% of the bytes,
"safe bytes’, can be random values, while the rest must stay fixed to
make the payload valid.

5 SCRIPT-BASED PLACE ATTACKS

These attacks aim to inflict maximum damage to the system with
minimal human involvement. We create a Python script to simulate
attacks with all the information via our reverse-engineering inves-
tigation. The script uses the credentials of pre-registered accounts
to submit data. We make the data submission process natural so
that it is not likely to raise an alert on the server. These Sybil users
submit data as if they were in our POI (fictitious business), in a five
m: office; we do not unleash all Sybil users at once, as it would be
unrealistic to have more than a few people in a small room. We
select a portion of the users and switch to a new subset of users
every hour to make data submissions from the purported place
look normal. Random submission rates create a different popular
time graph for each day. For example, only 40% of the Sybil users
submit data between 10:00-11:00 on Tuesdays, but 60% submit on
Wednesdays. Users submit data only within the opening hours of
the business, In summary, the script loads the credentials of the
users, the refresh tokens, registered client_id’s, and email addresses
in the setup phase. The script then obtains the necessary tokens
for data submission. Before submitting data, each adversary crafts
the x-geo headers. Finally, each user submits single location data to
the Google Maps server every second. Script checks and refreshes
tokens that are near to their expiration time.

Algorithm 1 shows the attack procedure for a specific POI target
Note that the algorithm is a basic version, meaning that one can
scale the number of users or submission rate for the intended attack
First, the script takes the user set with the relevant credentials and
targeted POI coordinates as input. It then checks and obtains the
relevant tokens for each user and saves the expiration time (lines
2-8). Note that the token acquisition has a slight difference for iOS
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

and Android as shown in the Fig. 2. Android devices obtain only
access tokens and submit data with them, whereas iOS devices
additionally obtain submit tokens. Then, for each user, it first builds
the x-geo header with the target location and current time and then
submits the location data using the token it obtained previously
(lines 11-12). Finally, if the script successfully submits the data
and gets the "200 OK" code from the server, it proceeds with the
next user. Otherwise, the script repeats the same procedure. To
imitate the app behavior, the script also waits for 1 second for the
subsequent submission of the same user.

Algorithm 1 Orchestration of Script-based Place Attacks
Input: User set with credentials: U, target coordinates: loctarget
for all s such that s € U do

Stoken Sexpiry < obtain_access_token(spr)
end for

for all s such that s € U do

if Sexpiry — tnow < ONE_SECOND then
Stoke» Sexpiry < obtain_access_token(spr)

end if

repeat
xgeo — create_xgeo(locrarget)
isSubmitted — submit (stokens Xge0)

until sisSubmitted

1
2
3
4
5: while True do
6
7
8
9:

end for
wait(1)
end while

Each of the fake (Sybil) users encodes the x-geo headers to emu-
late user movement by calling create_xgeo(loc) function. Usage of
latitude and longitude facilitates this process. We create an abstract
rectangle as the targeted region. An attacker picks a random loca-
tion in the created square to simulate the movement as persistent
location submission without changes might raise the alarm on the
server-side. We found Google Maps does not block these constant
location submissions. The timestamp is set individually for each
fake user, so each timestamp is distinct. We set the radius, role, and
producer of the location data to the value we found in the captured
packets. In other words, all generated x-geo headers will be unique.
Google Maps does not accept identical consecutive x-geo headers.
Further, attackers in our experiments change the ‘safe’ bytes ran-
domly in the payload. This small change prevents the server from
trivially linking the payloads.

We confirm our script-based place attacks by affecting live popular-
times graphs, Only popular businesses with high user activity have
the live crowdedness levels available [9]. These graphs changes
at the beginning of each hour. Accordingly, we assume that live
crowdedness is based on the crowdedness over the previous hour.
Our fake business does not show the popular times graph because
not every business receives this feature. We contacted Google Busi-
ness support and received no answer though the server accepts our
submitted data, we could not see a tangible effect. To responsibly
obtain such evidence, we use a real-world business for experiments.
After obtaining their consent on the experiment. We picked the

78

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

least popular hours to minimize the possible complications for the
business. We use the credentials of the fake accounts we registered
to both emulators and real mobile phones. We were physically
present on the premises to verify the results. We started submitting
data with ten distinct accounts and observed the popular-times
graph change as shown in Fig. 3. The crowdedness levels increased
even though the actual customer number decreased by two. When
we increased the number of submissions per account, we could
not see any increase in crowdedness. This is normal since Google
only uses the data of the users who allowed their data to be stored
historically [12].

The scripts are efficient in terms of computation, running Alg. 1
with ten accounts only use 5% of the CPU and 25 MB of memory.
We use one IP address for the submissions. This is unlikely to raise
any alarm because barring submissions with the same IP creates a
compatibility nightmare. Such counter-measure, for example, may
prevent devices that use access points to connect to the internet. On
average, we submit 75,000 location data daily to our fake business
for eight hours. The server accepts all submitted data. We verified
that if the submission form has corrupted or wrong values, e.g., the
wrong token or client id, the server rejects the submitted data.

We consider the scalability of the script-based place attacks by
submitting large amounts of location information. There are no
submission limits for users. In other words, users can make mul-
tiple submissions concurrently. Besides, users can use the same
submit/access tokens for multiple submissions. This weakness al-
lows Sybil users to appear in many places simultaneously, affecting
the PS campaigns in a broad area. For this experiment, we replicate
the Sybil users to have 700 ‘sources’ of data submission simultane-
ously, i., 70 threads for each account submit data simultaneously,
We use our fake business for the location of submissions. The server
accepts all of the serially submitted data except for some rare cases
around eight seconds. This experiment shows that an attacker can
submit a vast volume of data without being evicted from the sys-
tem, Even if Google detects such Sybil-based activity, it is hard to
remove its effects. Evicting a user/blocking an account may be easy,
but deleting the huge amount of data already contributed can be
challenging since it is unclear when misbehavior started, more so
given data are being aggregated.

6 EMULATOR-BASED ATTACKS

We explore how an attacker could affect business, public trans-
portation, and street crowdedness information leveraging emulator-
based Sybil users. The motivation, target, and victims can be the
same as those for script-based place attacks. The difference is the
means and method of the attack: the attacker uses smartphone em-
ulators for submitting location data to change the crowdedness of
the targeted road/business/public transportation instead of scripts.
Emulators run instances of Google Maps simultaneously and sub-
mit incorrect data. The advantage from the attacker’s viewpoint is
that emulators are easier to configure, and use; the disadvantage is
they are more costly to operate. Installing the app to the emulators
and setting their GPS to the attack target can be easy for most peo-
ple. The attacker needs to host the emulator in her local machines,
which can be performance- and energy-heavy. Alternatively, the
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

attacker can host the emulators in the cloud, which can be expen-
sive. All in all, emulator-based attacks can be a practical choice for
the attackers if they have the necessary resources.

For our experiments, we use a workstation to run emulators
locally. We use Genymotion [25] for the emulator software, but
other tools can be used (excluding Android Studio because some
of Google Maps features seem to not work in emulators). We use
the free version of Genymotion, with limited functionality. The
pro version of Genymotion can automate tasks better, e.g., auto-
mate and replay the GPS movement with a defined speed; or utilize
GMTool [26] to start emulators via command-line interfaces auto-
matically. We establish that even the weakest attacker (without the
Genymotion Pro) can be effective. A stronger attacker can scale
these resources. We create helper scripts to automate the attack
process. These scripts do not directly submit data, but help attackers
orchestrate the attack.

6.1 Place Attacks

The attacker imitates an ordinary user, replacing physical devices
with emulators. In other words, an attacker in a remote location
with a computing platform tries to create an effect that would
normally need multiple users with their physical devices actually
present in the targeted area. The attacker first configures the emu-
lators by installing the app, signing in with different accounts, and
setting their location according to the targeted place. Within the
targeted area, the attacker continuously changes the location of
the emulators to create a fake movement. We randomly add some
noise to the coordinates so that the location is different but inside
the target place; submitting the same location data could alert the
server and possibly allow it to link data by adversarial Sybil users.
The runtime of this attack depends on the purpose of the attacker
and can vary. For example, an attacker can run emulators for the
entire working hour of the target place to create a constant crowd.

We use scripts to configure and control emulators to automate the
attack process. The script takes attack target coordinates and total
time to traverse the place as an input and it generates coordinates
of the entire Sybil user trajectory intersecting the area of the target
place; meaning that the Sybil user is present in the place itself. In
addition, the script creates commands for configuring the emulators,
such as selecting the emulator, enabling the GPS, and setting the
device location. We then feed those commands to the emulators via
the command line tool of Genymotion [27]. The advantage is that
the attacker can automate the process of changing the emulator
coordinates with prepared trajectories instead of manually entering
them. Reproduction of the attack for any other targeted POI is more
effortless in this way.

Our machine can host up to 9 emulators with 1 GB of memory
simultaneously. We repeat the experiment in Sec. 5, based on scripts,
to establish the attack can affect POI crowdedness histograms. We
started 9 emulators, set their locations at 45 minutes, and stopped
at the hour mark. We aimed at a slight increase of the live popular
times of the graph. We stopped the emulators immediately once we
saw a small effect like in Fig. 3. Thus, we verified that such emulator-
based place attacks work if appropriately configured. Naturally,
an attacker with more resources would only need to increase the

79

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

Popular times Freays~

Popular times Fidos

Figure 3: Popular times graph of a targeted business shown
before and after the place attacks. We purposely only mildly
influenced the crowdedness to avoid any inconvenience. An

attack with a larger volume of submissions can be more pro-
nounced or severe.

number of emulators and the effect of the attack would increase
proportionally.

6.2 Public Transportation Attacks

The essence of the public transportation attacks is the attacker
simulates the behavior similar to our example case described in the
Sec. 2. One can set the locations manually or using a command-line
shell [27]. We craft an attacker script that prepares configurations
for the emulators and creates a route for emulated users. The scripts
generate the necessary commands for attack automation, such as
preparing Sybil user trajectories to create a fake movement. We
also set locations and configurations manually via GUI to create
movement for the emulators. In both cases, emulators can create
a fake movement that misleads the that there is an actual user of
a public transportation. When an emulator changes its location
towards the expected public transportation route at the departure
time, the app immediately sends a notification asking about the
crowdedness level. As a result, the attacker does not have to wait
for the planned trip route to reach the destination. Rather, every
emulator obtains crowdedness forms within the first minute of
the attack. This also shows that, if designed carefully, the attacker
may not need to expend significant resources, running the emula-
tion for a short time for each crowdedness form. We try to obtain
crowdedness forms with a single account using many emulators
simultaneously to see if we can scale our attacks. We log in to
different emulator instances with the same account and aim to get
forms for all emulators. We configure emulators as identically as
possible. For example, we leave the IMEI number as 0 for all of
them. Although we emulate the usage of different transportation
lines simultaneously, each emulator obtains the crowdedness forms.
We repeat targeting the same public transportation line, with the
same setting, and again succeed in obtaining forms.

We repeat the experiments multiple times with different public
transportation lines, at different times across a metropolitan area.
On all occasions, the attacker obtains the crowdedness form and is
thus allowed to submit data. Overall, PS-based public transporta-
tion live data anywhere in the city can be ‘poisoned’ with relatively
small effort. This is a troubling sign on multiple fronts: The attacker
does not even need multiple accounts. Google Maps does not check
whether a device is ‘real’ or not. Our objective is to show that attack-
ers can get these forms easily; the submission of incorrect data is
trivial, but we refrain not to affect the application and benign users.
In our experiments, we never fill or submit crowdedness forms to
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

Figure 4: Illustrating the effect of the 12 emulated Sybil de-
vices on a two-lane street. The road section turns from green
to red after the slow-moving fake platoon passes.

not to pollute the collected data. We simply skip the crowdedness
questions in case of form retrieval and close the app.

User Feedback Automation: The adversary could automate these
attacks by auto-clicker applications [28, 29] found easily in the appli-
cation marketplaces. An auto-clicker application allows attackers to
configure actions, such as writing to search fields, clicking buttons,
changing locations, and answering the crowdedness forms. With
such tools, an attacker would not need to spend time guiding the
attacks manually. Once designed, the auto-clicker configurations
can be used for other emulators by duplicating the emulator image
or distributing the configuration file. We use an auto-clicker app,
specifically [28], to assist the attacks. Our auto-clicker configuration
starts app, clicks the search button, enters the destination, selects
the public transportation option, selects and starts the route. Simul-
taneously, we use another script to enable GPS, set the emulator’s
starting location, and create movement when the departure time
comes. In conclusion, the attacker needs to open the auto-clicker
software, load the configuration, and run the attack script on the
host device for each emulator. The rest of the attack sequence is
handled by the script and the auto-clicker, to obtain and submit
forms automatically.

6.3 Traffic Attacks

We examine the attacks influencing traffic congestion levels using
emulators which emulators mimic the behavior of legitimate users,
eg., smartphone of users in vehicles. Once again, we configure the
emulators by installing the app. This time, we do not have any active
account logged in to the app to show that this feature can be easier
to attack. Each emulator is identical. We allocate 700 MB of memory
and a single processor for each emulator. We also install and use
an auto-clicker software [28] to automate the attack process. The
auto-clicker opens the map, gets directions to the targeted place,
configure the drive mode, and starts the route.

To move the emulators at a constant speed, we generate the
coordinates of the devices before deploying the attack using a script.
The script takes source and destination coordinates of the route
and speed of the vehicles and outputs the commands to set these
values for the emulators and create a movement. We feed these
commands when Google Maps in the emulators start the route.

We use 12 emulators on three 450 meter long different street
sections. Emulators move at a constant speed of 10 km/h. As the

80

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

command-line interface creates a slight delay when setting the GPS
coordinates, thus the resultant emulated device speed is 1-2 km/h
slower. We start the emulators at 5-second intervals to create a
platoon or line of vehicles. As illustrated in Fig. 4, we started to
see the effects after the first 250 meters, where the first section
turned green to yellow. When the emulated platoon ‘drives’ for 800
meters, the corresponding road segment, all the roads up to that
point turned to either red or dark red, meaning the slowest possible
category. The remaining road sections turned from green to yellow
to red when the platoon crossed the respective sections. We stopped
the attacks after the fake platoon arrived end of the second road
section to prevent further effects on the roads. We observed that
the affected road sections remained ‘slow’ for approximately 10
minutes, even after the trial termination.

For the targeted road segment, we choose streets near our lab
over a weekend evening, The area is populated by offices, so they are
almost empty except for the work hours on weekdays. The street's
historical traffic level is green (no traffic) for almost all weekend,
but still we chose evenings to be extra careful. Although this sought
to establish the attack worked, tried in a carefully selected location,
basically isolated and with no actual traffic, to eliminate any risk
for actual Google Maps users, there are significant ramifications.
An attacker could produce large-scale artificial traffic jams in any
city using emulator-based traffic attacks for long periods covering
long or central, popular roads, affecting large numbers of users,
and affecting Google Maps.

7 IMPLICATIONS AND COUNTERMEASURES

Implications: We showed that Sybil-based attacks can be debil-
itating and easy to mount, exactly because of the open and con-
tributory nature of participatory sensing features in Google Maps.
Combined with the automation of emulators and scripts, attackers
could mount, scale, and steer the attacks quickly and easily. Altered
knowledge for a target area or point of interest may be modest
compared to the vast Google Maps world, but it can be highly detri-
mental to the individuals, the region, and the community it pertains
to.

Google Maps is integrated into daily life thus attacks could have
severe repercussions in the future if not addressed. Script-based
attacks can alter the popularity and crowdedness of the places and
transportation lines. An attacker could make a competitor restau-
rant look crowded on Friday nights to attract potential customers
to her place. Another attacker could change the live crowdedness
of one subway line to direct people to other lines to cause confu-
sion and inconvenience. Emulator-based attacks could target public
transportation and traffic congestion levels. An attacker could sub-
mit crowdedness forms to make a bus appear packed so that people
may decide to use another, possibly longer or more expensive, way
of transportation to avoid the crowded bus. Attackers could make
central, popular roads look congested to force people to change
routes, costing time and money. These kinds of Sybil attacks can
come in a Cyberattack scenario conducted by countries against
targeted countries’ key cities. Cyberattacks can disrupt and cripple
the specific vital areas of the city to create misinformation. As re-
liance on such PS-based information grows, in the future, without
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

appropriate countermeasures in place, large-scale misinformation
attacks can disrupt important aspects of smart-city activities.
Countermeasures: We do not encounter any mechanisms to detect
fake Sybil devices based on our experiments. We conjecture that
Google Maps can detect and prevent most of our attacks relatively
easily but not without tradeoffs. Once an attack is detected, Google
Maps should block Sybil devices/sessions to prevent further harm,
Next, we briefly discuss possible countermeasures.

Currently, refresh tokens allow script-based attacks. Refresh to
kens are easy to obtain, have an unlimited lifetime, and can be used
simultaneously. Server-side changes can address these weaknesses
to detect Sybil devices and prevent them from harming the system.
It is easy to capture the Google Maps traffic, thus allowing device
owners to see messages, most importantly, refresh tokens. With
the refresh tokens, attackers do not need any real device. They can
utilize the scripts for data submission. Refresh tokens should not
have an unlimited lifetime, thus making them harder to maintain,
Instead of extracting them once, attackers would need to capture
them continuously. Moreover, the server should not issue multiple,
overlapping tokens, Overlapping tokens allow accounts to appear
in multiple places and with multiple sessions simultaneously. En-
forcing a single active token policy would eliminate Sybil users
submitting data simultaneously. Still, at the same time, it can create
compatibility problems for an app used by millions.

Sometimes legitimate users submit location data in entirely dif-
ferent places. The server can check recent data for any unusual
submission. In case of detection of an anomaly, the server should
discard the suspected data for the PS tasks without reducing other
application functionality. This can happen when sensors are being
calibrated or performed inaccurately (e.g,, in a challenging propaga-
tion environment for GPS). Such data are faulty and should not be
used in the PS tasks anyway. There are available data verification
schemes in the literature that can help to solve this problem [30,
31], leveraging historically submitted data to establish a model and
then test the incoming data in real-time. One can also detect the
emulators by simple checks, such as inspecting IMEI, validating
sensors, and detecting rooted devices [32]. Furthermore, when sub-
mitting crowdedness forms, Google's reCAPTCHA [33] can be used
to prevent bots from automating the attacks.

Finally, given that an attacker can easily create many accounts
for script-based attacks: Keeping a simple and open registration
process may attract new users, but it also creates problems. Most
people do not often create accounts for platforms of the Google
caliber. So making the registration process heavier can be a reason-
able cost for increasing security. However, harder registration may
decrease participation and complicate user privacy. These defense
recommendations hint at how to mitigate the attacks on the PS-
based features of a popular LBS. They raise the bar for the attackers
and make the system more secure as a first step towards thwarting
all shown attacks.

8 RELATED WORK

There are PS applications aspiring to improve our quality of life for,
among many proposals, healthcare [34, 35], environmental moni-
toring [36, 37] and urban sensing [38, 39] already with a significant
user base. Security and privacy issues in participatory sensing have

81

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

received notable attention from the research community [40, 1, 41,
2, 42] but deployed applications with PS functionality and features
have hardly adopted security mechanisms. As smart devices be-
come increasingly popular and soon ubiquitous, it is only a matter
of time that increased use of PS and data contributory systems leads
to exploits, misbehaviors, and attacks. There are few works focused
on the effects of Sybil attacks in the context of PS. [43, 44] focuses
on attacks towards location-based such as Foursquare and Face-
book places. A more recent work [45] outlines the investigation of
attacks on different PS and LBS apps. However, their main focus is
API requests and improper input validation vulnerabilities of the
apps and how an attacker can exploit them to influence the system,
whereas this work focuses on fake users within the system.

More closely related research investigated attacks on the traffic
congestion levels of Google Maps, and Waze [46]. Even though it is
based on the 2013 versions of the apps, it gives insights regarding the
PS aspects, and we can still see the similarities in data encoding in
the current version. In addition, [46] proposes a defense mechanism
verifying the submitted location via zero-knowledge proofs. Ghost
Riders [6] is perhaps the most closely related work to ours, creating
Sybil, ghost riders in the popular app Waze. These ghost riders
manipulate the system by creating fake events and traffic congestion
levels, The proposed countermeasure is based on SybilRank [47]
algorithm that ranks Sybil nodes based on their relation to the social
network of the system. Similar prior work in [48] focuses on such
Sybil drivers in Waze, too, creating fake traffic jams and impacting
real-time navigation services. [49] investigates the fake businesses
in Google Maps and discusses the ramifications by analyzing past
search queries and how attackers bypass the security mechanisms
for business verification. Finally, [32] aims at preventing the Sybil
node registration to a PS system by checking whether devices
are real or emulated, along with countermeasures relevant here.
Comparing to the most relevant works [6, 48, 46], we focus on
a broader range of PS functionality and demonstrate this on a
different, popular service. We consider Google Maps popularity
graphs, public transportation, and traffic data, whereas others focus
on traffic events, congestion levels, and user tracking. This paper
and [6, 48, 46] all focus on Sybil-based attacks, especially concerning
traffic data, but the app, the PS features, and the attack specifics
differ.

9 RESPONSIBLE DISCLOSURE AND CONDUCT

We disclosed our findings and attacks to Google in late April 2021. In
June 2021, we supplemented the disclosure with a detailed descrip-
tion of the exact steps to reproduce the attacks. The disclosure [50]
was done through Google Vulnerability Reward Program (VRP) [51]
The Google Bug Hunter Team evaluated our submission and ac-
cepted the vulnerability in July 2021. It was classified with priority
level P2 and severity level $2 [52]. A bug ‘bounty’ was provided as a
reward, together with an acknowledgment in the hall of fame [53]
Google is working on a fix, with work ongoing as of 30th of March
2022.

Our work sought to establish that the envisioned attacks, essen-
tially, work while ensuring that our investigation did not affect any
actual Google Maps user. We proceeded with each investigation
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

step with utmost care. First, we considered a self-defined POI with-
out any significance to any actual user. Then, we sought the consent
of a real-world business, picked an appropriate time (low popularity
slot, with very few customers), and dimensioned the duration and
Sybil-based data volume to a minimum, to observe a small change
in the POI crowdedness histogram. We immediately stopped the ex-
periment as soon as the observation was made. When considering
the public transportation crowdedness, obtaining a questionnaire
for a targeted line/route sufficed to establish the attack worked; we
refrain from submitting the slightest response.

Regarding establishing that the attacks work for the PS-based
traffic level information, we adhered to the same principle. First, we
refrained from reenacting scenarios as those the most closely related
work has already demonstrated; attack-induced long road segment
congestion or road hazards [48], or suboptimal route selection
due to the attacks [6]; or several-minute walk of 99 devices on
the road pavement or across a bridge to be perceived as Google
Maps road congestion [5]. First, we choose a short road segment
to target, we emulate only 12 users, and we do not even attempt
to demonstrate any effect such as a route change or road hazard;
only a very ephemeral modest change on the reported congestion,
and then immediately stop the experiment. Overall, the short-lived
modest change would hardly affect return routing options even for
artificial local queries.

Equally important, we select the location of the targeted road
segment in an area and the time of the experiment at a time such
that there is practically no activity. The road segment, in a tech
office area outside the city center, has a low driving speed limit
serving only local traffic, in a grid road city planning layout offer-
ing multiple options. It is not close to any important passage or
complicated geography (e.g., bridge connecting islands) or traffic
arteries (e.g., motorways, tunnels). Moreover, popular POIs in the
region (e.g., commercial centers) can be accessed easily through
other major roads. More so, the time, a weekend evening ensured
that there would practically no one driving to and from the road
segment. Based on long observations, activity drops drastically in
the evenings, and it is practically non-existent during weekends,
as people refrain from going to the office ~ more so on Saturday
night. This scarcity of people on weekend evenings was further
aggravated during these pandemic times, with even less human
mobility in the area. Last but not least, to the best of our knowledge,
no emergency service vehicle relies on Google Maps for navigation.

We also note that we were careful not to violate any Google
policy [54] while creating and using accounts, notably not buying
accounts nor creating them in an automated manner and not us-
ing them for any other purpose beyond the investigation for this
research effort. Again, we established the feasibility of the attacks
only, with a small number of accounts, without investigating the
(potentially catastrophic) impact of the attacks. One could have con-
sidered investigating large-scale, large-volume real-world attacks,
but this would unavoidably result in significant disruptions of the
service and significant risks for users. Thus, a different methodology
would have been necessary.

82

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

10 CONCLUSION

We presented Sybil-based attacks to reveal the vulnerabilities of
the current popular PS-based LBS. We proposed different types
of attacks targeting different PS features of Google Maps, a well-
established and very popular LBS. The motivation of this work is
to establish that such features can be targeted and exploited by
automated, large-scale, large-volume attacks, impacting numerous
users. This is more important as, in the future, more users and
more activities in a smart city would depend on PS-based LBS;
especially because these findings can carry to other applications
and services. On the positive side, our investigation that identified
attacks already hints on specific countermeasures that could be
integrated and thwart Google Maps attacks. More broadly, given
popular applications with PS features lack strong security, despite
research proposing full-fledged architectures for PS security and
privacy, we hope this work further motivates improvements and
eventually trustworthy PS.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work was partially supported by the Wallenberg AI, Autonomous
Systems and Software Program (WASP) funded by the Knut and Al-
ice Wallenberg Foundation, by the Swedish Foundation for Strategic
Research (SSF) SURPRISE project, and the KAW Academy Fellow-
ship Trustworthy IoT project

REFERENCES
(1)

Stylianos Gisdakis, Thanassis Giannetsos, and Panagiotis Pa-
padimitratos. 2016. Security, privacy, and incentive provision
for mobile crowd sensing systems. IEEE Internet of Things
Journal, 3, 5, 839-853.

Emiliano De Cristofaro and Claudio Soriente. 2013. Extended
capabilities for a privacy-enhanced participatory sensing in-
frastructure (pepsi). IEEE Transactions on Information Foren-
sics and Security, 8, 12, 2021-2033.

Hongyu Jin and Panos Papadimitratos. 2019. Resilient pri-
vacy protection for location-based services through decen-
tralization. ACM Trans. Priv. Secur., 4. ISSN: 2471-2566.
DOI: 10.1145/3319401. https://doi.org/10.1145/3319401.

Iica Suran. [n. d.] Fake road closure - google maps commu-
nity. (Online; accessed 11-February-202]. (). https://support.
google.com/maps/thread/137301768/fake-road-closure?hl=
en.

Simon Weckert. [n. d.] Google maps hacks. [Online; ac-
cessed 10-January-2021]. (). http://www. simonweckert.
com/googlemapshacks.html.

Gang Wang, Bolun Wang, Tianyi Wang, Ana Nika, Haitao
Zheng, and Ben Y Zhao. 2018. Ghost riders: sybil attacks on
crowdsourced mobile mapping services. IEEE/ACM transac-
tions on networking, 26, 3, 1123-1136.

Google. 2009. The bright side of sitting in traffic: crowdsoure-
ing road congestion data. [Online; accessed 14-December-
2019]. (2009). https://googleblog. blogspot.com/2009/08/
bright-side-of-sitting-in-traffic.html.

Andrew J. Hawkins. 2019. Google will now tell you how
crowded your bus or train is likely to be. [Online; accessed
17-April-2020]. (2019). https://www.theverge.com/2019/
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

(9]

{10}

uy)

[12]

13)

{14]

{15]

[16]

07)
tas)

[19]

(20)

(21]

(22)

(23)

(24]

(25)

6/ 27/ 18761187 / google - maps - transit - crowded - delays -
predictions-train-bus-subway.

Google. [n. d.] Popular times, wait times, and visit duration.
[Online; accessed 14-December-2019]. (). https://support.
google.com/business/answer/6263531?
Johann Lau. [n. d.] Google maps 101: how ai helps predict
traffic and determine routes. [Online; accessed 29-November-
2021]. (). https://blog. google/products/maps/google-maps-
101-how-ai-helps-predict-traffic-and-determine-routes/.
Tim Dierks and Eric Rescorla. 2008. The transport layer
security (tls) protocol version 1.2. (2008).

Google. [n. d.] Google my business help - how can i get
google "popular times” to appear underneat my business
page? [Online; accessed 14-December-2019]. (). https ://
support.google.com/business/thread/1774142?hl=en.
Quora. [n. d.] How can i create a google account without
a phone number during the registration process? [Online;
accessed 10-January-2021]. (). https://www.quora.com/How-
can-I-create-a-Google-account-without-a-phone-number-
during\\-the-registration- process.

Cyclonis. [n. d.] How to create a gmail account without a
phone number? [Online; accessed 17-December-2020]. ().
https://www.cyclonis.com/how-to-create-gmail-account-
without-phone-number/.

Hottelecom. [n. d.] Hottelecom voip phone service. [Online;
accessed 10-January-2021]. (). https://hottelecom.biz/.
AppSally. [n. d.] Appsally buy gmail accounts. [Online; ac-
cessed 10-January-2021]. (). https:// www. appsally.com/
products/gmail-accounts/.

XK72. [n. d.] Charles proxy. [Online; accessed 21-Nov-2020].
(). https://www.charlesproxy.com/.

Jeremy Rowley. [n. d.] Stop certificate pinning. [Online; ac-
cessed 1-December-2021]. (). https:// www.digicert.com/
blog/certificate-pinning-what-is-certificate-pinning.
Lucian Constantin. [n. d.] Security researchers lose faith
in http public key pinning. [Online; accessed 1-December-
2021). (). https://thenewstack.io/security-researchers-lose-
faith-http-public-key-pinning/.

OAuth2. [n. d.] Oauth2 access tokens. [Online; accessed 10-
January-2021]. (). https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/
access-tokens/.

Google. [n. d.] Chromium open source code. [Online; ac-
cessed 17-December-2020]. (). https://github.com/chromium/
chromium.

Google. [n. d.] X-geo spec. [Online; accessed 17-December-
2020]. (). https://goto.google.com/xgeospec.

Google Developers. [n. d.] Protocol buffers. (Online; accessed
17-December-2020]. (). https : // developers . google .com /
protocol-buffers.

Google. [n. d.] Chromium partner_location_descripton pro-
tobuf file. [Online; accessed 17-December-2020]. (). https:
//github.com/chromium/chromium/blob/master/chrome/
android/java/src/org/chromium/chrome/browser/omnibox/
geo/partner_location_descriptor.proto.

Genymobile. [n. d.] Genymotion android emulator. [Online;
accessed 17-December-2020]. (). https://www.genymotion.
com/.

n.

83

(26)

[27]

(28)

[29]

[30]

(31]

(32)

[33]

(34)

135]

[36]

137]

[38]

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

Genymobile. [n. d.] Genymotion android emulator. [Online;
accessed 19-October-2021]. (). https://docs.genymotion.com/
desktop/latest/06_GMTool.html.

Genymobile. [n. d.] Genymotion android emulator. [Online;
accessed 19-October-2021]. (). https://docs.genymotion.com/
desktop/latest/05_Genymotion_Shell.html.

Y.C Studio. [n. d.] Click assistant - auto clicker : gesture
recorder. [Online; accessed 26-November-2021]. (). https://
play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com rise.automatic.
autoclicker.clicker.

ArloSoft. [n. d.] Macrodroid - device automation. [Online;
accessed 17-December-2020]. (). https://play.google.com/
store/apps/details?id=com.arlosoft.macrodroid.

Stylianos Gisdakis, Thanassis Giannetsos, and Panos Pa-
padimitratos. 2015. Shield: a data verification framework
for participatory sensing systems. In Proceedings of the 8th
ACM Conference on Security & Privacy in Wireless and Mobile
Networks, 1-12.

Dong Wang, Tarek Abdelzaher, Lance Kaplan, and Charu
C Aggarwal. 2013. Recursive fact-finding: a streaming ap-
proach to truth estimation in crowdsourcing applications.
In 2013 IEEE 33rd International Conference on Distributed
Computing Systems. IEEE, 530-539.

Jatesada Borsub and Panos Papadimitratos. 2018. Hardened
registration process for participatory sensing. In Proceedings
of the 11th ACM Conference on Security & Privacy in Wireless
and Mobile Networks. ACM, 281-282.

Google. [n. d.] Recaptcha. [Online; accessed 17-December-
2020]. (). https://www.google.com/recaptcha/about/.

Hong Lu, Denise Frauendorfer, Mashfiqui Rabbi, Marianne
Schmid Mast, Gokul T Chittaranjan, Andrew T Campbell,
Daniel Gatica-Perez, and Tanzeem Choudhury. 2012. Stresssense:
detecting stress in unconstrained acoustic environments us-
ing smartphones. In Proceedings of the 2012 ACM conference
on ubiquitous computing, 351-360.

Jason Ryder, Brent Longstaff, Sasank Reddy, and Deborah
Estrin. 2009. Ambulation: a tool for monitoring mobility pat-
terns over time using mobile phones. In 2009 International
Conference on Computational Science and Engineering. Vol-
ume 4, IEEE, 927-931.

Michael Von Kaenel, Philipp Sommer, and Roger Watten-
hofer. 2011. Ikarus: large-scale participatory sensing at high
altitudes. In Proceedings of the 12th Workshop on Mobile Com-
puting Systems and Applications, 63-68.

Diego Mendez, Alfredo J Perez, Miguel A Labrador, and
Juan Jose Marron. 2011. P-sense: a participatory sensing sys-
tem for air pollution monitoring and control. In 2011 IEEE
International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Com-
munications Workshops (PERCOM Workshops). IEEE, 344—
347.

Gahng-Seop Ahn, Mirco Musolesi, Hong Lu, Reza Olfati-
Saber, and Andrew T Campbell. 2010. Metrotrack: predictive
tracking of mobile events using mobile phones. In Interna-
tional Conference on Distributed Computing in Sensor Systems.
Springer, 230-243.
Session 2: Vehicular Network Security

139]

[40]

(4)

[42]

[43]

(44)

(45)

Daniel Peebles, Hong Lu, Nicholas D Lane, Tanzeem Choud-
hury, and Andrew T Campbell. 2010. Community-guided
learning: exploiting mobile sensor users to model human
behavior. In AAAL Volume 10. Citeseer, 1600-1606.

Toamnis Boutsis and Vana Kalogeraki. 2013. Privacy preserva-
tion for participatory sensing data. In 2013 IEEE International
Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communications (Per-
Com). IEEE, 103-113.

Stylianos Gisdakis, Thanassis Giannetsos, and Panos Pa-
padimitratos. 2014. Sppear: security & privacy-preserving
architecture for participatory-sensing applications. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2014 ACM conference on Security and privacy
in wireless & mobile networks, 39-50.

Jianbing Ni, Kuan Zhang, Qi Xia, Xiaodong Lin, and Xuemin
Sherman Shen. 2020. Enabling strong privacy preservation
and accurate task allocation for mobile crowdsensing. IEEE
Transactions on Mobile Computing, 19, 6, 1317-1331. pox:
10.1109/TMC.2019.2908638.

Bogdan Carbunar and Rahul Potharaju. 2012. You unlocked
the mt. everest badge on foursquare! countering location
fraud in geosocial networks. In 2012 IEEE 9th International
Conference on Mobile Ad-Hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS 2012).
IEEE, 182-190.

Tasonas Polakis, Stamatis Volanis, Elias Athanasopoulos, and
Evangelos P Markatos. 2013. The man who was there: vali-
dating check-ins in location-based services. In Proceedings of
the 29th Annual Computer Security Applications Conference,
19-28.

Sojhal Ismail Khan, Dominika C Woszczyk, Chengzeng You,
Soteris Demetriou, and Muhammad Naveed. 2021. Charac-
terizing improper input validation vulnerabilities of mobile
crowdsourcing services. In Annual Computer Security Appli-
cations Conference, 944-956.

84

(46)

[47]

{48}

[49]

[50]

(51]

(52)

[53]

[54]

WiSec ’22, May 16-19, 2022, San Antonio, TX, USA

Tobias Jeske. 2013. Floating car data from smartphones: what
google and waze know about you and how hackers can
control traffic. Proc. of the BlackHat Europe, 1-12.

Qiang Cao, Michael Sirivianos, Xiaowei Yang, and Tiago
Pregueiro. 2012. Aiding the detection of fake accounts in
large scale social online services. In Proceedings of the 9th
USENIX conference on Networked Systems Design and Imple-
mentation. USENIX Association, 15-15.

Meital Ben Sinai, Nimrod Partush, Shir Yadid, and Eran
Yahav. 2014. Exploiting social navigation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1410.0151.

Danny Yuxing Huang, Doug Grundman, Kurt Thomas, Ab-
hishek Kumar, Elie Bursztein, Kirill Levchenko, and Alex C.
Snoeren. 2017. Pinning down abuse on google maps. In Pro-
ceedings of the 26th International Conference on World Wide
Web (WWW °17). International World Wide Web Confer-
ences Steering Committee, Republic and Canton of Geneva,
CHE, 1471-1479. IsBN: 9781450349130. Dor: 10.1145/3038912.
3052590. https://doi.org/10.1145/3038912.3052590.

Google. [n. d.] How google handles security vulnerabilities.
[Online; accessed 19-Nov-2021]. (). https://about.google/

appsecurity/.
Google. [n. d.] How google handles security vulnerabili-

ties. [Online; accessed 19-Nov-2021]. (). https://bughunters.
google.com/about/rules/6625378258649088.

Google. [n. d.] Issues | google issue tracker | google de-
velopers. [Online; accessed 1-December-2021]. (). https://
developers. google.com/issue-tracker/concepts/issues.
Google. [n. d.] Google Bug Hunters - Cihan Eryonucu &
Panos Papadimitratos. [Online; accessed 1-April-2022]. ().
https://bughunters. google.com /profile / d6aee20a- de54-
44a9-a37e-fff7ee4b0675.

Google. [n. d.] Gmail program policies. [Online; accessed
1-April-2022]. (). https://www.google.com/gmail/about/
policy/.