
ICT 21633

Fundamentals of Software
Engineering

Assignment - 02

HS/2022/19712

2000 Level

1°* Semester

Department of Information
Technology

University of Ruhuna

1|Page
Introduction

SDLC known as software development life cycle. It is a structured process used to planning,
creating, testing and deploying software systems. There are some main phases of the software
development life cycle. Thy are, Planning, Analysis, Design, Implementation, Testing and
integration, deploying, Maintenance. Each phase is crucial for creating a successful software
product. Furthermore each phase involves different activities. Using SDLC we can design and
build high quality software. It is a cost effective and time efficient process.

(depioyment)

_ Sle

Figure 01-Software Development Life Cycle

Planning Phase

In the planning phase of the software development life cycle objectives, project's scope and
feasibilities are defined. In this phase stakeholders identify goals, resources and timelines of the
project. Furthermore stakeholders understand client or end user needs. In this phase
stakeholders assess the technical, operational and financial feasibilities of project. Furthermore
stakeholders have to define what should be included and excluded in the project. Determining
required resources such as human, technological and financial. Furthermore stakeholders have
to create a project schedule in this phase.

Analysis Phase

In this phase analysis refers to the process of understanding and specifying what the software
needs to do to meet user requirements. This is the process of gathering information about the
needs and expectations of stakeholders for the software system. This step involves
interviews(unstructured), surveys, focus groups, workshops, mind mapping and other
techniques to gather information from stakeholders. After that analyzing the information,
identify the high level goals and objectives of the software system. Furthermore identifying any
constraints or limitations that may affect the development of the software system. Moreover in
this phase stakeholders create a clear documentation and check that the requirements are
complete and accurate.

2|Page
Design phase

System's architecture and detailed specifications are created in design phase using
requirements gathered in the analysis phase. Describes the overall structure of the system
including the choice of technology stack, system components and their interaction.
Stakeholders create database schema in good manner to store data efficiently and design user
friendly user interface. Components of the system break down to smaller modules to define
their functionalities and interfaces. The effective design ensures that the development process
is efficient and risk are minimized. Furthermore development group create detailed
specifications for each component.

Implementation phase

In software development life cycle actual coding of the software is included in implementation
phase. In this phase programmers translate design documents and specifications into software
code using programming languages and tools. Furthermore programmers will check individual
modules of the software system to ensure they work correctly. After that programmers
combine individual modules and test them together. The main goal of the implementation is
produce a good software product that meets client's requirements. There are lots of
programming languages in today's world. Some of them are, Java, Python, Java Script, C#, PHP.

Testing and Integration phase

In testing and integration of SDLC Testers and Quality Assurance engineers ensure that software
functions correct and meets user requirements. In this phase Testers identify bugs in the
software system. There are four types of testing in this phase. They are, Unit, Integration,
System and Acceptance test. Unit testing means Testers or QA engineers test individual
components and functions in isolation. Integration testing means testers or QA engineers test
interactions between integrated units or modules. In system testing they evaluates the
complete and integrated software system. In acceptance testing they validates the software for
user requirements and business needs.

In integration phase Testers or QA engineers combine and test various modules of the software
to ensure that they work together as intended. In this phase tester use automated builds and
tests to detect integration issues early. Using testing and integration testers and QA engineers
ensure that each component is working correct within the system.

3| Page
Deployment phase

In deployment phase end user or client receive the completed software. Client will ensure that
the development environment is ready including hardware, software and network
configurations. After that client will install the software and adjust settings to fit the specific
needs. Furthermore client will check the software to confirm that the software works as
expected. After that client will publish the software to user. Furthermore client will monitor the
software's performance and functionality to find any issues available in software.

Maintenance phase

In maintenance phase software is updated, repaired and improved after the software initial
release. In this phase system administrators can correct errors that they could not find errors
during the initial phases. Also they can add new features or they can improve existing ones.
Furthermore they can improve software efficiency and performance in this phase. Also system
administrators can apply updates for hardware, software and security environments. The goal
of maintenance is to ensure that the software continues to meet user needs and operate
effectively.

Summary With a Example

Let's think that our development team is going to do a Hotel Reservations System software,
then our group have to planning about the system. In this phase our development team will ask
about requirements of the client. After that we have to identify project goals, resources and
timelines of the project. In this phase we have to assess feasibilities such as technical,
operational and financial. After that we have to create a project schedule including deadlines
and timelines.

In analysis phase we have to gather information about the project needs and expectations of
our working group using such as interviews, surveys and focus groups. We have to conduct
interviews with hotel staff, customers and management to gather requirements. In hotel
reservations systems, key requirements are,

e Hotel package details
e Payment process

© Book or reserve rooms
e Facilities

eCheck in and outs

e Security

4|Page
e Location/ Hotel history
¢ Staff and service details

Our development group have to gather functional requirements like above. Furthermore we
have to consider about non functional requirements like system performance, security. We can
use diagrams such as Data flow diagram, HIPO diagram, UML diagram for both analysis and
design phase.

Level 0 Data Flow Diagram

Hotel ‘Accommodation info

Administration customer info

ao (Check room avatiabity

Customer info Customer info

Resewtion
System

_ a. Sect a

Accommodation info

£

j, Coustomer info

Service

Figure 02-Level 0 Data Flow Diagram

Level 1 Data Flow Diagram

‘Accommodation info ‘Accommodation info

Hotel Bilinfo ‘Aecomminfo Booking
Administration —

Customer info

Check room availability yo

PB
Check room availability

| customer info

maths Reservation x a | Customer
Pavent aries custome io

servse ani
Service detals Bil info |

;

Sewice

|
service Accommodation info |
Customer info

Figure 03-Level 1 Data Flow Diagram

Payment }

Customer info

customer info Customer

__bayment ¥ ]

Payment ——I

In the design phase development group have to create blueprint for the system based on the
requirements. Like that, we have to create development system architecture, database schema
and user interface design.

5|Page
Furthermore programmers have to coding the system using coding languages. After that
programmers have to implement database integration and they have to ensure that all the
components work together. Our testers have to check the system including such as unit testing,
integration testing, system and user acceptance testing. After those process our development
team can release the system for hotel and it's customers .After that hotel administration check
and use the hotel reservation system. Finally system administrators update, repair and improve
the hotel reservation system.

According to above phases, software development life cycle is very useful for stakeholders to
create a high quality software efficiently and systematically. We can use software models for
software development such as Waterfall, Agile, Interative and Spiral model. Those models were
introduced to follow a disciplined and systematic method while designing software.

References-

https;//www.synopsys.com
https;//www.tutorialspoint.com
https;//www.geeksforgeeks.org

6|Page